Add Login Policies (#826)
owncloud/docs-server: modules/admin_manual/pages/configuration/user/login_policies.adoc

= Login Policies
:toc: right

> :description: ownCloud provides login policies so admins can allow or reject groups to access ownCloud via specific login mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: ownCloud provides login policies so admins can allow or reject groups of users to access ownCloud via specific login mechanisms.
```

> :description: ownCloud provides login policies so admins can allow or reject groups of users to access ownCloud via specific login mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: This isn't exactly true. Login policies, in general, will allow or reject users from login. Right now, we only have one login policy implemented which the group login policy, which will allow or reject the user based on the groups and login mechanism (as you've described)

> :description: ownCloud provides login policies so admins can allow or reject groups of users to access ownCloud via specific login mechanisms.

Author: ```suggestion
:description: ownCloud provides login policies that will allow or reject users from login. With the group login policy, admins can allow or reject groups of users to access ownCloud via specific login mechanisms.
```

== Introduction

{description}

> Login policies will emit a `failed login` event if the user isn't allowed to login due to a reject rule.

Reviewer 2: I don't know if this is clear enough. I mean, taking into account only the current group policy, you can set just a list of "allowOnly" groups, allowing only users in those groups. In that case, there is no explicit reject rule.

> == Usecases

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Use Cases
```

> Login policies can be beneficial to restrict memers of particular groups to use, respectively to deny particular login types. This is especially true for guest users as they do not have an ownCloud account and cant be validated via openidconnect but can login using their email and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Login policies can be used to restrict members of particular groups to use only particular login types. This is especially true for guest users as they do not have an ownCloud account and cannot be validated via openidconnect but can login using their email and password.
```

> For example, only the groups `guests` and `admin` can login the instance via username + password, while the rest of users must login through other mechanisms such as openidconnect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a desired rule could be that only the groups `guests` and `admin` can login to the instance via username + password, while the rest of the users must login through other mechanisms such as openidconnect.
```

> For example, a desired rule could be that only the groups `guests` and `admin` can login to the instance via username + password, while the rest of the users must login through other mechanisms such as openidconnect.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, a desired rule could be that only the groups `guests` and `admin` can log in to the instance via username + password, while the rest of the users must login through other mechanisms such as OpenID Connect.
```

== Configuration

> Login policies are handled via groups users are member of and maintained via the config.php file. See the xref:configuration/server/config_sample_php_parameters.adoc#order-of-login-policies[Order of login policies] for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Login policies are handled via groups that users are members of and maintained via the config.php file. See the xref:configuration/server/config_sample_php_parameters.adoc#order-of-login-policies[Order of login policies] for details.
```

> If no login policy is activated in the `loginPolicy.order` list, ownCloud will work normally. Only registered policies can be activated.

Reviewer 2: I don't see a reference about how the policies are registered. This could be confusing.

The registration of the policy is done by the policy / app itself, so unless documented otherwise, from the admin's perspective is automatic.

To enable login policies, use the following example:

[source,php]
----
'loginPolicy.order' => ['OC\Authentication\LoginPolicies\GroupLoginPolicy'],
----

> After enabling the `loginPolicy.order`, the configuration of the `groupLoginPolicy` can be made. The key definition below must be set according the needs and the description in xref:configuration/server/config_sample_php_parameters.adoc#configuration-of-the-group-login-policy[Configuration of the Group Login Policy]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After enabling the `loginPolicy.order`, the configuration of the `groupLoginPolicy` can be made. The key definition below must be set according to the needs and the description in xref:configuration/server/config_sample_php_parameters.adoc#configuration-of-the-group-login-policy[Configuration of the Group Login Policy]:
```

[source,php]
----
'loginPolicy.groupLoginPolicy.forbidMap' => [
  '<loginType>' => [
    'allowOnly' => ['<group1>', ......, '<groupN>'],
    'reject' => ['<group1>', ........, '<groupN>'],
  ],
],
----

> The following example gives an idea how to configure the `Group Login Policy`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example gives an idea of how to configure the `Group Login Policy`:
```

* Users belonging to the admin group won't be able to access via token (app password), while the rest of the users can.
* Only users from group1 and group2 are allowed to access through username + password, and users from group3 will be rejected.

> * In case a users is both member of an allowOnly group and a reject group, rejection will take priority. This means that even if user1 is member of group1 he won't be able to access if he's also member of group3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If a user is a member of both an allowOnly group and a reject group, rejection will take priority. This means that even if user1 is a member of group1 he won't be able to access if he's also a member of group3.
```

> * Only members of group4 can login using OIDC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Only members of group4 can log in using OIDC.
```

[source,php]
----

> loginChecker.groupLoginChecker.forbidMap => [

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loginPolicy.groupLoginPolicy.forbidMap => [
```

Did I miss something? Why is this a different key to the generic example at line 35?

Author: You are completely right.
The wrong name was a copy/paste issue and originates from the PR in core in the text, not in the code. Thanks for catching 👍

Author: You are completely right.
The wrong name was a copy/paste issue and originates from the PR in core in the text, not in the code. Committed in the docs PR too. Thanks for catching 👍
